Newsletters: add 307 (2024-06-14) (#1726)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2024-06-14-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #307'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2024/06/14/
name: 2024-06-14-newsletter
slug: 2024-06-14-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME

## News

- **Draft BIP for quantum-safe address format:** developer Hunter Beast
  [posted][beast post] to both Delving Bitcoin and the mailing list a
  ["rough draft" BIP][quantum draft] for assigning version 3 segwit

>   addresses to a [quantum resistant][topic quantum resistant] signature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  addresses to a [quantum resistant][topic quantum resistance] signature
```

  algorithm.  The draft BIP describes the problem and links to several
  potential algorithms along with their expected onchain size.  The
  choice of algorithms and the specific details of implementation are
  left for future discussion, as are additional BIPs necessary to full
  realize the vision of adding full quantum resistance to Bitcoin.

## Bitcoin Core PR Review Club

*In this monthly section, we summarize a recent [Bitcoin Core PR Review
Club][] meeting, highlighting some of the important questions and
answers.  Click on a question below to see a summary of the answer from
the meeting.*

[Don't wipe indexes again when continuing a prior reindex][review club
30132] is a PR by [TheCharlatan][gh thecharlatan] that can improve
startup time when a user restarts their node before an ongoing reindex
has completed.

Bitcoin Core implements five indexes. The UTXO set and the block index

> are required, whereas the transaction index, compact block filter index

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are required, whereas the transaction index, [compact block filter][topic compact block filters] index
```

and coinstats index are optional. When running with `-reindex`, all
indexes are wiped and rebuilt. This process can take quite a while, and
it is not guaranteed to finish before the node is stopped for any
reason.

> Because the node needs to have an up to date UTXO set and block index,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the node needs to have an up-to-date UTXO set and block index,
```

the reindexing status is persisted on disk. When a reindex is started, a
flag is [set][reindex flag set], and it will only be unset when the
reindex is finished. This way, when the node starts, it can detect that
it should continue reindexing, even if the user didn’t provide the flag
as a startup option.

When restarting (without `-reindex`) after an unfinished reindex, the

> required indexes are preserved and will continue to be rebuilt further.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
required indexes are preserved and will continue to be rebuilt.
```

Prior to [Bitcoin Core #30132][], the optional indexes would be wiped a
second time. [Bitcoin Core #30132][] can make node startup more

> efficient by avoiding the wiping of the optional indexes when it is not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
efficient by avoiding the wiping of the optional indexes when not
```

necessary.

{% include functions/details-list.md

>   q0="What is the behaviour change introduced by this PR?"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  q0="What is the behavior change introduced by this PR?"
```
(and elsewhere) ... I'm not sure if we want the British spelling, but we use the American spelling most often so far:
```
$ git grep -i behaviour | wc -l
29
$ git grep -i behavior | wc -l
286
$
```
Or maybe we don't have to be consistent!

  a0="Behaviour is changed in three ways. First, as per the goal of this
  PR, optional indexes are no longer wiped again when the node is
  restarted before reindexing is completed. This aligns the wiping
  behaviour of optional indexes with that of required indexes. Second,
  when a user requests a reindex through the GUI, this request is no
  longer ignored, reversing a subtle bug introduced in [b47bd95][gh
  b47bd95]. Third, the log line \"Initializing databases...\\n\" is
  removed."
  a0link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/30132#l-19"

  q1="What are the two ways an optional index can process new blocks?"
  a1="When an optional index is initialized, it checks if its highest
  block is the same as the current chaintip. If it is not, it will first
  process all missing blocks with a background sync, through

>   `BaseIndex::StartBackgroundSync()`. As soon as the index catches up

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  `BaseIndex::StartBackgroundSync()`. When the index catches up
```

  with the chaintip, it will process all further blocks through the
  validation interface using `ValidationSignals::BlockConnected`."
  a1link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/30132#l-52"

  q2="How does this PR affect the logic of optional indexes processing
  new blocks?"

>   a2="Prior to this PR, wiping the optional indexes without wiping the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  a2="Before this PR, wiping the optional indexes without wiping the
```

  chainstate means these indexes will be considered out-of-sync. As per
  the previous question, that means they will first perform a background
  sync before switching to the validation interface. With this PR, the
  optional indexes remain in sync with the chainstate, and as such no
  background sync is required. Note: background sync only starts after

>   reindex has completed, whereas processing validation events happens in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  reindex has completed, whereas processing validation events happen in
```

Reviewer 3: I think "happens" is correct here, so I've left that as is but I've taken all your other suggestions, thank you!

- [Bitcoin Core #28307][] rpc, wallet: fix incorrect segwit redeem script size limit

- [Bitcoin Core #30047][] refactor: Model the bech32 charlimit as an Enum ; mainly just looking for a quick mention that this is being done for silent payments -harding

- [Bitcoin Core #28979][] wallet, rpc: document and update `sendall` behavior around unconfirmed inputs

- [Eclair #2854][] and [LDK #3083][] both related to [BOLTs #1163][]

- [LND #8491][] invoice_cltv_expiry

- [LDK #3080][] Optional compact blinded path creation

- [LDK #3072][] Reintroduce addresses to NodeAnnouncementInfo. ; this
  might not be notable - fell free to delete if your research indicates
  it's just something minor -harding

- [BIPs #1551][] Add BIP 353: DNS Payment Instructions

{% assign four_days_after_posting = page.date | date: "%s" | plus: 345600 | date: "%Y-%m-%d 14:30" %}
{% include snippets/recap-ad.md when=four_days_after_posting %}
{% include references.md %}
{% include linkers/issues.md v=2 issues="29496,28307,30047,28979,2854,3083,1163,8491,3080,3072,1551,30132" %}
[beast post]: https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/proposing-a-p2qrh-bip-towards-a-quantum-resistant-soft-fork/956

> [quantum draft]: https://github.com/cryptoquick/bips/blob/61aac1a91a596cdeed75ed7f5c5c19b0b4b923ef/bip-p2qrh.mediawiki

Reviewer 4: The draft has gone through several additional iterations since it was first posted. Here's the latest copy.

```suggestion
[quantum draft]: https://github.com/cryptoquick/bips/blob/e1fa27cb25deee8d58bdb9a64c112dfdf09e216d/bip-p2qrh.mediawiki
```

[core lightning 24.05rc2]: https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/releases/tag/v24.05rc2
[Bitcoin Core 27.1rc1]: https://bitcoincore.org/bin/bitcoin-core-27.1/
[review club 30132]: https://bitcoincore.reviews/30000
[gh thecharlatan]: https://github.com/TheCharlatan

> [gh b47bd95]: github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/commit/b47bd959207e82555f07e028cc2246943d32d4c3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[gh b47bd95]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/commit/b47bd959207e82555f07e028cc2246943d32d4c3
```

[Lightning BLIPs][blips repo], [Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition
repo], and [BINANAs][binana repo]._

- [Bitcoin Core #29496][] bumps `TX_MAX_STANDARD_VERSION` to 3, which makes
  Topologically Restricted Until Confirmation ([TRUC][topic v3 transaction
  relay]) transactions standard. If a transaction’s version is 3, it will be
  treated as a TRUC transaction as defined in the BIPs #431 specification. The
  `CURRENT_VERSION` remains 2, meaning the wallet will not create TRUC
  transactions yet.

- [Bitcoin Core #28307][] fixes a bug that imposed the 520-byte P2SH maximum
  script size limit on SegWit redeem scripts for both P2SH-segwit and bech32.
  This fix enables the creation of multisig [output descriptors][topic
  descriptors] involving more than 15 keys (up to 20), also allows for the
  signing of these scripts, along with other post-segwit redeem scripts that
  surpass the P2SH limit.

- [Bitcoin Core #30047][] refactors the model of the bech32 encoding scheme
  `charlimit` from a constant of 90 to an `Enum`. This change allows for easy
  support of new address types that use the bech32 encoding scheme but don't

>   have the same character limit as segwit addresses. For example, to enable

Reviewer 5: missed that one, thanks for feedback.

  parsing [silent payment][topic silent payments] addresses, which require up to
  118 characters.

- [Bitcoin Core #28979][] updates the behavior of the `sendall` RPC command to
  document and test the spending of unconfirmed change, and if specified, the
  spending of all unconfirmed inputs. See Newsletter #198 for more information

>   on the `sendall` command. <!-- If I understand correctly, this PR is about the documentation and testing of an already existing feature.-->

Reviewer 6: The documentation of `sendall` was inaccurate in that it said that it would only spend confirmed UTXOs, but Ishaana discovered that it does spend unconfirmed change. Since it does spend some unconfirmed UTXOs, she added support for ancestor aware funding behavior to `sendall` which was missing. She did not change the behavior to allow unconfirmed change, that was already there.

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #307'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2024/06/14/
name: 2024-06-14-newsletter
slug: 2024-06-14-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter announces a draft BIP for a quantum-safe Bitcoin
address format and includes our regular sections with the summary of a

> Bitcoin Core PR Review Club, annoucements of new releases and release

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Bitcoin Core PR Review Club, announcements of new releases and release
```

candidates, and descriptions of notable changes to popular Bitcoin
infrastructure projects.

## News

- **Draft BIP for quantum-safe address format:** developer Hunter Beast
  [posted][beast post] to both Delving Bitcoin and the mailing list a
  ["rough draft" BIP][quantum draft] for assigning version 3 segwit

>   addresses to a [quantum resistant][topic quantum resistance] signature

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  addresses to a [quantum-resistant][topic quantum resistance] signature
```

  algorithm.  The draft BIP describes the problem and links to several
  potential algorithms along with their expected onchain size.  The

>   choice of algorithms and the specific details of implementation are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  choice of algorithms and the specific implementation details are
```

  left for future discussion, as are additional BIPs necessary to fully
  realize the vision of adding full quantum resistance to Bitcoin.

## Bitcoin Core PR Review Club

*In this monthly section, we summarize a recent [Bitcoin Core PR Review
Club][] meeting, highlighting some of the important questions and
answers.  Click on a question below to see a summary of the answer from
the meeting.*

[Don't wipe indexes again when continuing a prior reindex][review club
30132] is a PR by [TheCharlatan][gh thecharlatan] that can improve
startup time when a user restarts their node before an ongoing reindex
has completed.

Bitcoin Core implements five indexes. The UTXO set and the block index
are required, whereas the transaction index, [compact block

> filter][topic compact block filters] index and coinstats index are

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
filter][topic compact block filters] index, and coinstats index are
```

optional. When running with `-reindex`, all indexes are wiped and
rebuilt. This process can take quite a while, and it is not guaranteed
to finish before the node is stopped for any reason.

> Because the node needs to have an up-to-date UTXO set and block index,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the node needs an up-to-date UTXO set and block index,
```

the reindexing status is persisted on disk. When a reindex is started, a
flag is [set][reindex flag set], and it will only be unset when the
reindex is finished. This way, when the node starts, it can detect that
it should continue reindexing, even if the user didn’t provide the flag
as a startup option.

When restarting (without `-reindex`) after an unfinished reindex, the
required indexes are preserved and will continue to be rebuilt.

> Prior to [Bitcoin Core #30132][], the optional indexes would be wiped a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before [Bitcoin Core #30132][], the optional indexes would be wiped a
```

  `BaseIndex::StartBackgroundSync()`. When the index catches up
  with the chaintip, it will process all further blocks through the
  validation interface using `ValidationSignals::BlockConnected`."
  a1link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/30132#l-52"

  q2="How does this PR affect the logic of optional indexes processing
  new blocks?"
  a2="Before this PR, wiping the optional indexes without wiping the
  chainstate means these indexes will be considered out-of-sync. As per
  the previous question, that means they will first perform a background
  sync before switching to the validation interface. With this PR, the
  optional indexes remain in sync with the chainstate, and as such no
  background sync is required. Note: background sync only starts after
  reindex has completed, whereas processing validation events happens in
  parallel."
  a2link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/30132#l-70"
%}

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

- [Core Lightning 24.05][] is a release of the next major version of

>   this popular LN node implementation.  It includes improvments that

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  this popular LN node implementation.  It includes improvements that
```
```suggestion
  this popular LN node implementation.  It includes improvments that
```

## Notable code and documentation changes

_Notable recent changes in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo],
[Lightning BLIPs][blips repo], [Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition
repo], and [BINANAs][binana repo]._

- [Bitcoin Core #29496][] bumps `TX_MAX_STANDARD_VERSION` to 3, which makes
  Topologically Restricted Until Confirmation ([TRUC][topic v3 transaction
  relay]) transactions standard. If a transaction’s version is 3, it will be
  treated as a TRUC transaction as defined in the [BIP431][] specification. The
  `CURRENT_VERSION` remains 2, meaning the wallet will not create TRUC
  transactions yet.

- [Bitcoin Core #28307][] fixes a bug that imposed the 520-byte P2SH maximum
  script size limit on SegWit redeem scripts for both P2SH-segwit and bech32.
  This fix enables the creation of multisig [output descriptors][topic

>   descriptors] involving more than 15 keys (now allowing up to the `OP_CHECKMULTISIG` consensus limit of 20), also allows for the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  descriptors] involving more than 15 keys (now allowing up to the `OP_CHECKMULTISIG` consensus limit of 20), and also allows for the
```

  signing of these scripts, along with other post-segwit redeem scripts that
  exceed the P2SH limit.

- [Bitcoin Core #30047][] refactors the model of the [bech32][topic bech32] encoding scheme
  `charlimit` from a constant of 90 to an `Enum`. This change allows for easy
  support of new address types that use the bech32 encoding scheme but don't
  have the same character limit as [BIP173][] was designed for. For example, to enable
  parsing [silent payment][topic silent payments] addresses, which require up to
  118 characters.

- [Bitcoin Core #28979][] updates the behavior of the `sendall` RPC
  command (see [Newsletter #194][news194 sendall]) to spend unconfirmed

>   change in addition its previous behavior of spending confirmed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  change in addition to its previous behavior of spending confirmed
```

> - [Bitcoin Core #28979][] updates the behavior of the `sendall` RPC
>   command (see [Newsletter #194][news194 sendall]) to spend unconfirmed
>   change in addition to its previous behavior of spending confirmed
>   outputs. If unconfirmed change is spent, it will compensate for any
>   _fee deficit_ (see [Newsletter #269][news269 deficit]).

Reviewer 6: This is not right. This PR **corrected the documentation** of `sendall` to state that it will spend unconfirmed change, and added ancestor aware funding to sendall.

Also, you could manually pass unconfirmed UTXOs as inputs, so it would be more accurate to say that _fee deficit_ will be compensated for _**any unconfirmed UTXOs**_ being spent.

```suggestion
- [Bitcoin Core #28979][] corrects the documentation of the `sendall` RPC
  command (see [Newsletter #194][news194 sendall]) to clarify that `sendall` will spend unconfirmed
  change outputs  in addition to its previous behavior of spending confirmed
  outputs. If unconfirmed UTXOs are spent, it will compensate for any
  _fee deficit_ (see [Newsletter #269][news269 deficit]).
```

Author: #1730

  one for normal blinded paths. This enables optionality depending on
  the caller's context.  Compact blinded paths use short channel
  identifiers (SCIDs) that reference a funding transaction (or a channel
  alias) and are typically 8 bytes; normal blinded paths reference an LN
  node by its 33-byte public key.  Compact paths may become stale if a
  channel is closed or [spliced][topic splicing], so they're best used
  for short-term QR codes or payment links where byte space is at a
  premium.  Normal paths are preferable for long-term uses, including
  [onion message][topic onion messages]-based [offers][topic offers]
  where the use of node identifiers may allow forwarding a message to a
  peer even if the node and the peer no longer share a channel (since
  onion messages don't require channels).
  `ChannelManager` is updated to use compact blinded paths for short-lived
  [offers][topic offers] and refunds, while reply paths are refactored to use
  normal (non-compact) blinded paths.

- [BIPs #1551][] adds [BIP353][] with a specification for DNS Payment Instructions,
  a protocol to encode [BIP21][] URIs in DNS TXT records, for

>   human-readability and to provide the ability to query such resolutions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  human readability and to provide the ability to query such resolutions
```

  privately. For example, `example@example.com` could resolve to a DNS address
  such as `example.user._bitcoin-payment.example.com`, which will return a
  DNSSEC-signed TXT record containing a BIP21 URI like
  `bitcoin:bc1qexampleaddress0123456`. See [Newsletter #290][news290

>   bip353] for previous discussion and [last week's newsletter][news306

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  bip353] for a previous discussion and [last week's newsletter][news306
```
